Hi, friends. I'm so glad you're here to help me celebrate.
What am I celebrating?
Can you tell?
I'm celebrating a birthday.
Today is a very special day.
It's a day called Pentecost.
And the reason it's so special
It's the day.
That the church was born,
Not church like you think of building.
By church the church
Of the people who knew God
Who love Jesus and want to follow him
So today we celebrate that birthday.
Saying happy birthday church
Now, if you remember,
Our story has gone that Jesus
And come back up to heaven
To be with father god.
But before he left, he made a very special promise to his disciples that he was going to spend the Holy Spirit.
Now the Holy Spirit
Come to those who believe in Jesus.
The Holy Spirit lives in them.
Remind them of what Jesus did and said.
Helps them to make wise choices.
So the disciples were waiting for the Holy Spirit.
And all of a sudden there was a great wind.
And it shook the room.
Where the disciples were.
And little flames of fire
Came down on each head.
Now, not a fire like we think of. This was something that just told them that the Holy Spirit was there, that the Holy Spirit was in them.
Well, there was such a commotion in that room.
Many, many people outside began to gather and wonder what was going on.
When they gathered,
11. Peter, one of the disciples, went out and started talking to the crowd.
About Jesus
about how Jesus lived, how he died, and how he rose again.
and how they could have Jesus living in their heart
And when they did that, they'd also get the Holy Spirit living in their heart.
And that they could be baptized.
Well,
Three thousand people.
believed in Jesus that day and got baptized. And they also received the Holy Spirit to guide them
And to help them to remember everything that Jesus said and did.
We're going to watch a video about that today.
And then sing our song.
And then we'll come back again and talk a little bit more about
Happy birthday church
So this is where we are in the story. God made a perfect world. People messed it up. But God had a plan to rescue them. He sent his son Jesus.
to save everybody so we could be with him and to save us Jesus had to beat death after he did that he went to heaven but first he told his friends that a cycle
disciples to wait, because he was going to send them a gift, the Holy Spirit. So they waited.
Even when there was a giant party going on outside, which was called Pentecost, with people from all over the world, the disciples stayed together inside, waiting.
Suddenly there was a loud noise like a really strong wind. It must have been pretty loud because lots of people came to see what was going on.
Then fire came down from heaven and landed on top of people's heads. This wasn't like the fire we're used to. It didn't burn them. This fire was way cooler.
Cooler. See what we did there? The disciples started speaking different languages. Languages they didn't even know. Or hadn't until then. They spoke Greek, Hebrew, Arabic, all of them.
All sorts of languages. It was a miracle. a lot of people were amazed.
Some were a little confused and some didn't know what to think but the disciples knew it was a special day a guy named Peter spoke up he reminded the crowd
the crowd of who Jesus was and God's rescue plan for them. And lots and lots and lots of people believed. Anyone who believes in Jesus has the Holy Spirit.
I believe, I believe, I believe, I believe, I believe, I believe, God has given them the Holy Spirit. And we can have the Holy Spirit.
Holy Spirit too, but that's not the end of the story.
Let's sing acts 1a together you guys we're gonna start by moving around like this and then we're gonna clap our hands you ready
All right, now this song is all about how God gave us the Holy Spirit.
Holy Spirit.
And when he did that we got great power let's start by seeing you will receive power
We see a movie.
Can you clap your hands?
The air
All right, you guys, we're going to sing that all over again. So you will receive power. Let's sing it out together.
Everywhere as loud as you can.
Sing it out.
All right, you guys, and we're going to get down really low
You guys go down really really low
Good job. Now let's bring it up.
And everyone, let's go.
And let me see you dancing.
Good job, let's sing, but you'll reach these powers.
as loud as you can.
1-8.
All right, you guys, let's dance together.
And can you clap your hands?
Let me see you turn.
Ollie.
Many of you remember Ollie.
Ollie's come to help celebrate the birth of the church with me again.
Now, when I say a happy birthday church, I'm not talking about
Building
or a place where we gather together. I'm talking about the people.
The people who believe in Jesus
The people who follow after Jesus
The people who want to know more about Jesus and want to help each other learn more about Jesus, that is the church.
So look around where you're sitting right now watching this.
Whether you're in your living room, your kitchen, or sitting on your back patio,
Those people around you?
That's the church.
Whenever we're with people who love Jesus
That is the church.
So this is a way that we say happy birthday to the church. Turn to somebody in the room.
and tell them happy birthday church
Wow.
That's awesome.
Now, I don't know how you might be able to celebrate the birthday of the church day.
Maybe you can make a cake?
Maybe you can get some
Cards and make happy birthday
Church card for somebody?
Maybe for
A family member that you can't see today who loves Jesus.
You can make them a card and send it in the mail.
You can reach out to them.
And help them to realize that this is a very important day.
This is the day the church started.
Happy birthday church